src/pages/blog/refactor-in-cli.md, before:

---
templateKey: blog-post
tags: []
title: Large Refactor At The Command Line
date: 2020-12-30T00:00:00
status: draft
description: ''
cover: "/static/refactor-in-cli.png"

---


As projects grow patterns that worked early on break and we need to change
things to make the project easier to work with, and more welcoming to new
developers.

## git

Before you start mucking up a project with wild commands at the terminal check
that you have a super clean git status. We may make some mistakes and need a
way to undo 100's of files and git makes it really easy if you start with a
clean history.


```bash
git status
```

If we are ready to begin work we should see a response like this.

``` bash
On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

It would also be wise to do this inside of a branch.  The minute you try to do
something wild in your working branch someone will walk by and ask you to do a
five minute task, but your deep in refactoring and haven't left yoursef a clean
way back.

``` bash
git branch my-big-refactor
```

## grepr

Time for the meat of this refactor replacing text accross our project.  I often
will pop this bash function into my terminal session and tweak it as needed.
This function is called `grepr` for `grep` then `replace`.  It will recursively
search for a given pattern inside your working directory, then use `sed` to
replace that pattern with another.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s/$1/$2/g"}
```

If your pattern contatains `/` characters such as for urls you can swap the
`/`'s in the `sed` command for `|`'s.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}
```

You can find this function and more of my bash notes.

https://waylonwalker.com/bash#recursively-replace-text

## Example

I recently flattened this blog so blogs are under the top level rather than
under `/blog` and I used this technique to swap internal links to the new format.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}


grepr "https://waylonwalker.com/blog/" "https://waylonwalker.com/"
```

## agr

## git diff

After running the replace command the first thing I want to see is everything
that changed.  Looking at git diff will highlight exactly what changed since
our last commit.

``` bash
git diff
```

## Work in small steps

If your happy with the results commit them now.  It's  best to do these
commands that have a large effect of the entire project in small steps.

``` bash
git add .
git commit -m "moved routes from /blog to /"
```

Working in small steps gives us an easy way to undo steps that may have been a
mistake before its too late.

## git reset
_be careful, work from a branch, make sure you started clean_

Let's say I wanted to change every occurance of one variable name to another.
Lets try to replace replace `pandas.CSVDataSet` with `pandas.ParquetDataSet`.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}


grepr "pandas.CSVDataSet" "pandas.ParquetDataSet"
```

Upon inspection of the `git diff` we notice that there was an unintentional
change to the `docs/standard-storage.md` file. To revert the entire change we
can run.

**note** These resets are irreversible.  Make sure that you started with a clean `git
status` and you are confident that you didn't have any work on your machine not
in the remote repo.

_<small><mark>match the remote and wipe out any changes</mark></small>_
``` bash
git reset --hard origin/main
```

_<small><mark>match our last commit</mark></small>_
``` bash
git reset --hard HEAD
```

## git clean
_how I remove untracked files_

Sometimes our refactoring requires moving files around. If we want to undo
steps like this git will not clean up untracked files.

``` bash
mv conf/base/sales-catalog.yml conf/base/sales/catalg.yml
```

_<small><mark>clean up untracked files</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -f
```

_<small><mark>clean up untracked directories</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -d
```


_<small><mark>clean up ignored files</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -x
```

`-x` can be a bit dangerous be careful with it.  You can loose significant time
by wiping out a `node_modules`, `venv`, or credentials.

## git  checkout

If our command was mostly successful, but just a few extra files were touched I
will manually revert them with `git checkout <filename>`

``` bash
git checkout conf/base/supply-catalog.yml
```

## gitui

I really love using `gitui` as a handy terminal interface to browse logs,
diffs, and commit a few files at a time.  It starts up crazy fast and is very
intuitive to navigate through diffs of chnages like this one file at a time if
the `git diff` gets too overwhelming.

Commit message:

cross link master-no-more

src/pages/blog/refactor-in-cli.md, after:

---
templateKey: blog-post
tags: []
title: Large Refactor At The Command Line
date: 2020-12-30T00:00:00
status: draft
description: ''
cover: "/static/refactor-in-cli.png"

---


As projects grow patterns that worked early on break and we need to change
things to make the project easier to work with, and more welcoming to new
developers.

## git

Before you start mucking up a project with wild commands at the terminal check
that you have a super clean git status. We may make some mistakes and need a
way to undo 100's of files and git makes it really easy if you start with a
clean history.


```bash
git status
```

If we are ready to begin work we should see a response like this.

``` bash
On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

It would also be wise to do this inside of a branch.  The minute you try to do
something wild in your working branch someone will walk by and ask you to do a
five minute task, but your deep in refactoring and haven't left yoursef a clean
way back.

``` bash
git branch my-big-refactor
```

## grepr

Time for the meat of this refactor replacing text accross our project.  I often
will pop this bash function into my terminal session and tweak it as needed.
This function is called `grepr` for `grep` then `replace`.  It will recursively
search for a given pattern inside your working directory, then use `sed` to
replace that pattern with another.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s/$1/$2/g"}
```

If your pattern contatains `/` characters such as for urls you can swap the
`/`'s in the `sed` command for `|`'s.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}
```

You can find this function and more of my bash notes.

https://waylonwalker.com/bash#recursively-replace-text

## Example

I recently flattened this blog so blogs are under the top level rather than
under `/blog` and I used this technique to swap internal links to the new format.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}


grepr "https://waylonwalker.com/blog/" "https://waylonwalker.com/"
```


## git diff

After running the replace command the first thing I want to see is everything
that changed.  Looking at git diff will highlight exactly what changed since
our last commit.

``` bash
git diff
```

## Work in small steps

If your happy with the results commit them now.  It's  best to do these
commands that have a large effect of the entire project in small steps.

``` bash
git add .
git commit -m "moved routes from /blog to /"
```

Working in small steps gives us an easy way to undo steps that may have been a
mistake before its too late.

https://waylonwalker.com/master-no-more

> I used the technique from this post to switch master to main on my blog.

## git reset
_be careful, work from a branch, make sure you started clean_

Let's say I wanted to change every occurance of one variable name to another.
Lets try to replace replace `pandas.CSVDataSet` with `pandas.ParquetDataSet`.

``` bash
grepr() {grep -iRl "$1" | xargs sed -i "s|$1|$2|g"}


grepr "pandas.CSVDataSet" "pandas.ParquetDataSet"
```

Upon inspection of the `git diff` we notice that there was an unintentional
change to the `docs/standard-storage.md` file. To revert the entire change we
can run.

**note** These resets are irreversible.  Make sure that you started with a clean `git
status` and you are confident that you didn't have any work on your machine not
in the remote repo.

_<small><mark>match the remote and wipe out any changes</mark></small>_
``` bash
git reset --hard origin/main
```

_<small><mark>match our last commit</mark></small>_
``` bash
git reset --hard HEAD
```

## agr

I have an alternative version that I occasionally use as well that utilizes the
silver searcher `ag`.  It does a great job at following your .gitignore rules
with no fuss, and can filter down to file extensions simply with flags like
`--md`

```bash
agr() {ag -l "$1" | xargs sed -i "s/$1/$2/g"}
```

## git clean
_how I remove untracked files_

Sometimes our refactoring requires moving files around. If we want to undo
steps like this git will not clean up untracked files.

``` bash
mv conf/base/sales-catalog.yml conf/base/sales/catalg.yml
```

_<small><mark>clean up untracked files</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -f
```

_<small><mark>clean up untracked directories</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -d
```


_<small><mark>clean up ignored files</mark></small>_
``` bash
git clean -x
```

`-x` can be a bit dangerous be careful with it.  You can loose significant time
by wiping out a `node_modules`, `venv`, or credentials.

## git  checkout

If our command was mostly successful, but just a few extra files were touched I
will manually revert them with `git checkout <filename>`

``` bash
git checkout conf/base/supply-catalog.yml
```

## gitui

I really love using `gitui` as a handy terminal interface to browse logs,
diffs, and commit a few files at a time.  It starts up crazy fast and is very
intuitive to navigate through diffs of chnages like this one file at a time if
the `git diff` gets too overwhelming.
